Blog: Best Split alternatives (#8303)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/best-split-alternatives.mdx

2. **Multi-use:** Reviewers like that they can combine A/B tests with surveys, funnels, session replays, and analysis tools to optimize the complete user experience.

3. **Data-focused:** VWO enables both technical and non-technical to make better data-driven decisions by being the complete source of experience data.

> #### Bottom line
> Larger conversion-focused companies will likely find VWO a solid alternative to Split. VWO has the key features of Split plus behavioral analytics, personalization, and more.

## 4. GrowthBook

- **Founded:** 2020
- **Similar to:** Split, Harness
- **Typical users:** Engineers and data scientists
- **Typical customers:** Security and compliance focused companies

![GrowthBook](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1713309283/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-split-alternatives/growthbook.png)

### What is GrowthBook?

[GrowthBook](/blog/posthog-vs-growthbook) is a warehouse native feature flag and experimentation platform. Its biggest selling point is integrating with the product and data tools you already use. Being open source and warehouse native makes it a popular choice with companies in strict regulatory environments.

> GrowthBook is open source with 5.5k stars on GitHub. It is self-hostable, but you can also use its hosted Cloud version.

Author: ```suggestion
GrowthBook is open source with 5.5k stars on GitHub. It is self-hostable, but you can also use its hosted cloud version.
```

</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use AB Tasty?

According to G2 reviews, users choose AB Tasty for the following reasons:

1. **Ease-of-use:** Non-technical users can create and manage simple A/B tests using the visual editor. The reports also praise how simple and intuitive the entire platform is.

2. **Support:** AB Tasty's customer support receives high praise. They even provide an option to help you with recommendations and implementation (for a cost) if you need it.

3. **Widgets:** Reviewers enjoy AB Tasty's collection of pre-built widgets such as alerts, banners, and modals to help personalize experiences.

> #### Bottom line
> For companies needing personalization and recommendations on top of the feature set of Split, you can do worse than AB Tasty. If you want to try before you buy, you should look elsewhere. 

## 6. Harness

- **Founded:** 2017
- **Similar to:** Split, LaunchDarkly
- **Typical users:** DevOps teams
- **Typical customers:** Enterprises focused on optimal developer experience

![Harness](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1713311108/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-split-alternatives/harness.png)

### What is Harness?

> Harness is a software delivery platform. This means it includes products like GitOps, feature flags, infrastructure as code, and more. It is built for DevOps teams and has features to support engineering best practices and developer experience.

Author: yes, it seems to basically always be capitalized in other situations

### Key features

- 🚩 **Feature flags:** Confidently release new features protected by guardrails and quality checks. 

- 💽 **GitOps:** Automate deployment pipelines across clouds, regions, and services. 

- 😈 **Chaos engineering:** Test the resilience of your application with pre-built and custom experiments like deleting pods or cutting off services. 

- 🧑‍💻 **Developer experience:** A centralized spot for portals, repos, and engineering insights to support engineering experience.

### How does Harness compare to Split?

> Harness has a much different feature set than Split does. It focuses on DevOps, whereas Split focuses on product and engineering. The key difference is Harness' lack of A/B testing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Harness has a different feature set than Split. It focuses on DevOps, whereas Split focuses on product and engineering. The key difference is Harness' lack of A/B testing. 
```

Reviewer: same question here re: DevOps/devops

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Advanced analytics" description="Custom SQL, paths, and retention analysis with flag data and beyond." />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Alerting" description="Detect and receive notifications when problems arise" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Environments" description="Separate data for different parts of the development lifecycle" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Scheduling" description="Trigger flag states at certain times" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Governance" description="Audit log, roles-based access, permissions" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Harness?

According to G2 reviews, users choose Harness for:

1. **Customizability:** Harness plugs into many services, architectures, resource types, and deployment methods. Reviewers like that it lets them evolve as their needs change.

> 2. **Developer-focused:** Harness is a tool built for developers. They appreciate the experience it provides them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Developer-focused:** Harness is a tool built for developers. Users appreciate the experience it provides them.
```

> 3. **Simplicity:** Although it is a developer tool, reviewers do mention they appreciate how easy it makes many tasks, like feature flags or deployments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Simplicity:** Although it is a developer tool, reviewers say appreciate how easy it makes many tasks, like feature flags or deployments. 
```

> #### Bottom line

> > For companies wanting to follow engineering best practice and not needing A/B testing, Harness can be a good choice. It is more likely to be an option for companies looking for DevOps tools though.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For companies wanting to follow engineering best practice, and those not needing A/B testing, Harness can be a good choice. Though it's more likely to be an option for companies looking for DevOps tools.
```

## 7. Kameleoon

- **Founded:** 2012
- **Similar to:** LaunchDarkly, AB Tasty
- **Typical users:** Product managers and developers
- **Typical customers:** Mid-sized ecommerce, retail, and entertainment companies

![Kameleoon](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1712355416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-optimizely-alternatives/kameleoon.png)

### What is Kameleoon?

Kameleoon is a developer-focused complete optimization platform with A/B testing, feature management, and personalization. On top of these, it includes an AI copilot that helps generate options, do predictive targeting, assist in decisions, and more.

> According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Kameleoon), as of April 2024, 816 of the top 1 million websites deploy Kameleoon. This is the closest of the alternatives to Split's 177.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Kameleoon), as of April 2024, 816 of the top one million websites deploy Kameleoon. This is the closest of the alternatives to Split's 177.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Environments" description="Separate data for different parts of the development lifecycle" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Scheduling" description="Trigger flag states at certain times" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Governance" description="Audit log, roles-based access, permissions" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Kameleoon?

According to [G2 reviews](https://www.g2.com/products/kameleoon/reviews), users are big fans of the following aspects of Kameleoon:

1. **Statistical tools:** Reviewers are more confident about the results of their experiments thanks to Kameleoon's different statistical engines and AI copilot.

2. **Editors:** The combination of the graphics and widget editors makes it easy to set up A/B tests and personalizations.

3. **Integrations:** Reviews like how Kameleoon integrates with all the tools they already use like Google Analytics, Adobe Analytics, and Mixpanel.

> #### Bottom line

> > For companies looking for a developer-focused optimization platform, Kameleoon is a good alternative. The fact that it isn't self-serve hurts this recommendation significantly, however.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For companies looking for a developer-focused optimization platform, Kameleoon is a good alternative. Though it not being self-serve is a major downside.
```

## Is PostHog right for you?

Here's the (short) sales pitch.

We're biased, obviously, but we think PostHog is the perfect Split replacement if:

> - You value transparency (we're open source and open core)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You value transparency. We're open source and open core.
```

> - You want more than just A/B testing and feature flags (we have a full suite of product analytics, session replays, and surveys).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You want more than just A/B testing and feature flags. We have a full suite of product analytics, session replays, and surveys.
```

> - You want to try before you buy (we're self-serve with a [generous free tier](/pricing))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You want to try before you buy. We're self-serve with a [generous free tier](/pricing)).
```
